README.md, before:

## About this repository

Mainline  **all-in-one** repository for all TF1 based **X-T Switch** powered by Asterfusion with Long Term Support.

Current supported **X-T switches**:

  - `X564P-T`,  64x 100G and auxiliary 2x 25G.
  - `X532P-T`,  32x 100G and auxiliary 2x 25G.
  - `X312P-T`,  12x 100G, 48x 25G, and  auxiliary 2x 25G.
  - `X308P-T`,  08x 100G, 48x 25G.

Sometimes, we call `X564P-T` and `X532P-T` as `X5-T`, and call `X312P-T` and `X308P-T` as `X3-T`.

## About the compatibilities to different P4Studio version

A few APIs, which exposed from P4Studio and called by BSP, are changed between lower version (< 9.3) of P4Studio and higher version (>= 9.3) of P4Studio.

For this repository, we are focused on the higher version of P4Studio, and so we set the default P4Studio version to `9.3.2`.

If you want to compile with P4Studio lower than `9.3`, please let BSP know your working P4Studio version by editing macro `SDE_VERSION`, which you can find in `bf-bsp-8.9.x/drivers/include/bf_pltfm_types/bf_pltfm_types.h`.


## Special dependency

There're some differences on hardware design between `X5-T` and `X3-T`. To this `all-in-one` repository, the full special dependencies are needed to be compiled and installed.

Here are the special dependencies:

  - `nct6779d`, which needed by `X312P-T`.
  - `cgoslx`, which needed by `X5-T`.

Please install the dependencies first from sources before compiling the **all-in-one** repository. You can find sources in [asternos.dev](https://asternos.dev/xt).

## Quick Start

All your files and folders are presented as a tree in the file explorer. You can switch from one to another by clicking a file in the tree.
The building of drivers produces a set of libraries that need to be loaded (or linked to) the application.
Here're the steps to build and install the <bf-platforms> package:

Barefoot SDK environment setup:
```
root@localhost:~# vi ~/.bashrc
export SDE=/usr/local/sde/bf-sde-9.3.2
export SDE_INSTALL=/usr/local/sde
export PATH=$PATH:$SDE_INSTALL/bin
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:$SDE_INSTALL/lib
root@localhost:# source ~/.bashrc
```
Clone and compile `bf-bsp-8.9.x`:
```
root@localhost:~# git clone https://asternos.dev/xt/bf-bsp-8.9.x.git
root@localhost:~# cd bf-bsp-8.9.x
root@localhost:~/bf-bsp-8.9.x# ./autogen.sh
root@localhost:~/bf-bsp-8.9.x# ​./configure --prefix=$SDE_INSTALL [--enable-thrift]
root@localhost:~/bf-bsp-8.9.x# ​make -j7
​root@localhost:~/bf-bsp-8.9.x# make install
```
After make & make install done, the `libasterfusionbf*`, `libplatform_thrift*`, `libpltfm_driver*`, `libpltfm_mgr*` and `libtcl_server*` will be installed to `$SDE_INSTALL/lib`, and all the header files exposed by bsp will be installed to `$SDE_INSTALL/include`.

Runtime environment setup:
```
# Generate /etc/platform.conf
root@localhost:~# xt-cfgen.sh
It looks like x532p-t detected.
...
========================== Generate /etc/platform.conf ==========================
CG1508
uart enabled
==========================            Done             ==========================

# Launch ASIC
root@localhost:~# run_switchd.sh -p diag
Using SDE /usr/local/sde/bf-sde-9.3.2
Using SDE_INSTALL /usr/local/sde
Setting up DMA Memory Pool
Using TARGET_CONFIG_FILE /usr/local/sde/share/p4/targets/tofino/diag.conf
...
Install dir: /usr/local/sde (0x564634fa2140)
bf_switchd: system services initialized
bf_switchd: loading conf_file /usr/local/sde/share/p4/targets/tofino/diag.conf...
bf_switchd: processing device configuration...
Configuration for dev_id 0
...
```

## Q&A

Looking forward your questions by emailing TSIHANG (tsihang@asterfusion.com).

Commit message:

Update and improvement. Tracking internal commit eca21e2afeb @ 18 Jan, 2023. 1. Enable Model/SN/Temp/Fan for X308P-T V2.0 (A new BMC firmware is required) 2. Decode CPLD for X564P-T 3. Force the FAN direction for X564P-T. 4. Update pwr rail and export them to /var/asterfusion/ 5. Install version.h to $SDE_INSTALL/include/bf_pltfm/asterfusion-bf/ 6. Added supported SDK in READM.md.

README.md, after:

## About this repository

Mainline  **all-in-one** repository for all TF1 based **X-T Switch** powered by Asterfusion with Long Term Support.

Current supported **X-T switches**:

  - `X564P-T`,  64x 100GbE QSFP28, and auxiliary 2x 25GbE SFP28 which support 1GbE.
  - `X532P-T`,  32x 100GbE QSFP28, and auxiliary 2x 25GbE SFP28 which support 1GbE.
  - `X312P-T`,  12x 100GbE QSFP28, 48x 25GbE SFP28, and auxiliary 2x 25GbE SFP28 which support 1GbE.
  - `X308P-T`,  08x 100GbE QSFP28, 48x 25GbE SFP28 and last 4 of them support 1GbE.

Sometimes, we call `X564P-T` and `X532P-T` as `X5-T`, and call `X312P-T` and `X308P-T` as `X3-T`.

## About the compatibilities to different P4Studio version

A few APIs, which exposed from P4Studio and called by BSP, are changed between lower version (< 9.3) of P4Studio and higher version (>= 9.3) of P4Studio.

For this repository, we are focused on the higher version of P4Studio, and so we set the default P4Studio version to `9.3.2`.

If you want to compile with P4Studio lower than `9.3`, please let BSP know your working P4Studio version by editing macro `SDE_VERSION`, which you can find in `bf-bsp-8.9.x/drivers/include/bf_pltfm_types/bf_pltfm_types.h`.

Current supported **SDE**:

  - `8.9.x`.
  - `9.1.x`.
  - `9.3.x`.
  - `9.5.x`.
  - `9.7.x`.
  - `9.9.x`.

## Special dependency

There're some differences on hardware design between `X5-T` and `X3-T`. To this `all-in-one` repository, the full special dependencies are needed to be compiled and installed.

Here are the special dependencies:

  - `nct6779d`, which needed by `X312P-T`.
  - `cgoslx`, which needed by `X5-T`.

Please install the dependencies first from sources before compiling the **all-in-one** repository. You can find sources in [asternos.dev](https://asternos.dev/xt).

## Quick Start

All your files and folders are presented as a tree in the file explorer. You can switch from one to another by clicking a file in the tree.
The building of drivers produces a set of libraries that need to be loaded (or linked to) the application.
Here're the steps to build and install the <bf-platforms> package:

Barefoot SDK environment setup:
```
root@localhost:~# vi ~/.bashrc
export SDE=/usr/local/sde/bf-sde-9.3.2
export SDE_INSTALL=/usr/local/sde
export PATH=$PATH:$SDE_INSTALL/bin
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:$SDE_INSTALL/lib
root@localhost:# source ~/.bashrc
```
Clone and compile `bf-bsp-8.9.x`:
```
root@localhost:~# git clone https://asternos.dev/xt/bf-bsp-8.9.x.git
root@localhost:~# cd bf-bsp-8.9.x
root@localhost:~/bf-bsp-8.9.x# ./autogen.sh
root@localhost:~/bf-bsp-8.9.x# ​./configure --prefix=$SDE_INSTALL [--enable-thrift]
root@localhost:~/bf-bsp-8.9.x# ​make -j7
​root@localhost:~/bf-bsp-8.9.x# make install
```
After make & make install done, the `libasterfusionbf*`, `libplatform_thrift*`, `libpltfm_driver*`, `libpltfm_mgr*` and `libtcl_server*` will be installed to `$SDE_INSTALL/lib`, and all the header files exposed by bsp will be installed to `$SDE_INSTALL/include`.

Runtime environment setup:
```
# Generate /etc/platform.conf
root@localhost:~# xt-cfgen.sh
It looks like x532p-t detected.
...
========================== Generate /etc/platform.conf ==========================
CG1508
uart enabled
==========================            Done             ==========================

# Launch ASIC
root@localhost:~# run_switchd.sh -p diag
Using SDE /usr/local/sde/bf-sde-9.3.2
Using SDE_INSTALL /usr/local/sde
Setting up DMA Memory Pool
Using TARGET_CONFIG_FILE /usr/local/sde/share/p4/targets/tofino/diag.conf
...
Install dir: /usr/local/sde (0x564634fa2140)
bf_switchd: system services initialized
bf_switchd: loading conf_file /usr/local/sde/share/p4/targets/tofino/diag.conf...
bf_switchd: processing device configuration...
Configuration for dev_id 0
...
```

## Q&A

Looking forward your questions by emailing TSIHANG (tsihang@asterfusion.com).
